index.md, before:

### Aim
The theory of *persistence* was developed in the early 2000’s as an attempt to define topological descriptors of datasets which are stable to noise---the so-called *barcodes*.
Persistence theory has now been studied and used in different mathematical contexts: homotopy theory, sheaves, symplectic geometry...
The aim of this seminar is to gather together the mathematical communities who have a common interest in the theoretical aspects of persistence.

### Upcoming talks

- October 11th, 2022: Martina Scolamiero and Lukas Waas


### How to attend
- **When:** Second Tuesday of each month, from *3pm* to *4:30pm CET*.
- **Where:** Online, by Zoom.


### Contact
If you have any *suggestions* or *would like to give a talk*, please contact the organizers by email at [pshtseminar@gmail.com](mailto:pshtseminar@gmail.com).


### Organizing Committee
- [Nicolas Berkouk](https://nberkouk.github.io/index.html) (EPFL, Lausanne)
- Damien Calaque (Institut Alexandre Grothendieck, Université de Montpellier) (Jan.--June 2022)
- [François Petit](https://fpetit.org/) (CRESS, Paris)
- [Luis Scoccola](https://luisscoccola.github.io) (Northeastern University, Boston) (Aug. 2022--)

Commit message:

simplify aim, add link to mailing list, add format description

index.md, after:

### Aim
The theory of persistence was developed in the early 2000’s as an attempt to define topological descriptors of datasets which are stable to noise.
The aim of this seminar is to gather together the mathematical communities who have a common interest in the theoretical aspects of persistence, such as its connections to sheaf theory, homotopy theory, symplectic geometry, and relative homological algebra.


### Upcoming talks

- October 11th, 2022: Martina Scolamiero and Lukas Waas


### Format
We meet the second Tuesday of each month, from *3pm to 4:30pm CET*.
Each edition consists of two 40 minute talks, separated by a 10 minute break.


### How to attend
To receive the Zoom links and reminders about the talks, please [join our mailing list](https://groups.google.com/g/psht-seminar).


### Contact
If you have any suggestions or are interested in giving a talk, please contact the organizers by email at [pshtseminar@gmail.com](mailto:pshtseminar@gmail.com).


### Organizers
- [Nicolas Berkouk](https://nberkouk.github.io/index.html) (EPFL, Lausanne)
- Damien Calaque (Institut Alexandre Grothendieck, Université de Montpellier) (Jan.--June 2022)
- [François Petit](https://fpetit.org/) (CRESS, Paris)
- [Luis Scoccola](https://luisscoccola.github.io) (Northeastern University, Boston) (Aug. 2022--present)
